content/docs/02-setup/vm-installation.md, before:

---
title: "VM Installation & Verification"
description: "Set up and verify the attacker and victim VMs from scratch."
icon: "code"
date: "2025-05-07T00:44:31+01:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-12T00:00:00+01:00"
draft: false
toc: true
weight: 202
---

# Virtual Machine Installation & Verification

> **You must have completed [Initial Setup & Installation](./environment.md) before proceeding.**

## 1. Choose Your VM Setup Method

{{< tabs tabTotal="2" >}}

{{% tab tabName="Recommended: Pre-built Disks" %}}

### Download Pre-built Images
Download both QCOW2 images and place them in the `vm/` directory at the project root:

| VM Disk          | Path               | Download URL                                           | Size      |
|------------------|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Attacker VM      | `vm/attacker.qcow2`| https://drive.proton.me/urls/J20W6CD998#rB7b5oM6idQC   | 5.6 GB    |
| Victim VM        | `vm/victim.qcow2`  | https://drive.proton.me/urls/EGVVVF6YXW#THevlby2e62E   | 5.6 GB    |

> **Tip:** The images are nearly identical. You can copy `attacker.qcow2` to `victim.qcow2` if that's more convenient.



### Launch the VMs
```bash
sudo scripts/run_vms.sh
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab tabName="Build Disks Yourself" %}}
If you prefer to build the disks yourself because you don't trust me (which is fair tbh), follow these steps:

### Download Ubuntu ISO
- Proton Drive: https://drive.proton.me/urls/N5ZQN96C30#77rPStc8Fx2i   (2.5 GB)
- Ubuntu archive: https://releases.ubuntu.com/20.04/ubuntu-20.04-desktop-amd64.iso  (2.5 GB)

### Create Blank QCOW2 Disks
```bash
qemu-img create -f qcow2 vm/attacker.qcow2 10G
qemu-img create -f qcow2 vm/victim.qcow2   10G
```

### Install Ubuntu Desktop into Each Disk
#### Attacker VM
```bash
qemu-system-x86_64 \
  -enable-kvm -machine accel=kvm -cpu host \
  -m 4096 -smp 4 \
  -name attacker-install \
  -drive file=vm/attacker.qcow2,format=qcow2,if=virtio,cache=writeback \
  -cdrom vm/ubuntu-20.04-desktop-amd64.iso -boot once=d \
  -netdev user,id=net0 -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=net0 \
  -vga virtio -display gtk
```
#### Victim VM
```bash
qemu-system-x86_64 \
  -enable-kvm -machine accel=kvm -cpu host \
  -m 4096 -smp 4 \
  -name victim-install \
  -drive file=vm/victim.qcow2,format=qcow2,if=virtio,cache=writeback \
  -cdrom vm/ubuntu-20.04-desktop-amd64.iso -boot once=d \
  -netdev user,id=net0 -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=net0 \
  -vga virtio -display gtk
```

> **Tip:** During installation, set up a user named `attacker` (for the attacker VM) and `victim` (for the victim VM) with password `jules` for consistency with the rest of the docs.

### After Installation
- Shut down the VM when done.
- The disks are now ready for use.

### Launch the VMs
```bash
sudo scripts/run_vms.sh
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## 2. Verifying Your VMs
- Run `./scripts/check_vms.sh` to verify the presence of disks and ISO files.
- If you see errors, check file paths and permissions.

## 3. Copying Files Into VMs
To transfer files (e.g., your project) into a VM, use one of:
- `scp` (requires SSH server in the VM)
- Shared folders (with QEMU/virtio)
- Cloud storage (e.g., upload to Google Drive, download in VM)



## 5. Next Steps
- Continue to [Attacking VM Setup](./attacking-vm-setup.md) and [Victim VM Setup](./victim-vm-setup.md) for per-VM configuration and usage.

Commit message:

Refactor EpiRootkit setup documentation to enhance clarity and consistency. Updated titles, descriptions, and connection details for the Attacker and Victim VM setup guides. Improved deployment instructions and added detailed steps for rootkit deployment and management. Streamlined prerequisites and verification processes across multiple files, ensuring comprehensive user guidance.

content/docs/02-setup/vm-installation.md, after:

---
title: "VM Installation & Verification"
description: "Set up and verify the attacker and victim VMs from scratch."
icon: "code"
date: "2025-05-07T00:44:31+01:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-12T00:00:00+01:00"
draft: false
toc: true
weight: 202
---

# Virtual Machine Installation & Verification

> **You must have completed [Initial Setup & Installation](./environment.md) before proceeding.**

## 1. Choose Your VM Setup Method

{{< tabs tabTotal="2" >}}

{{% tab tabName="Recommended: Pre-built Disks" %}}

### Download Pre-built Images
Download both QCOW2 images and place them in the `vm/` directory at the project root:

| VM Disk          | Path               | Download URL                                           | Size      |
|------------------|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Attacker VM      | `vm/attacker.qcow2`| https://drive.proton.me/urls/J20W6CD998#rB7b5oM6idQC   | 5.6 GB    |
| Victim VM        | `vm/victim.qcow2`  | https://drive.proton.me/urls/EGVVVF6YXW#THevlby2e62E   | 5.6 GB    |

### What are Pre-built Images?

These are simply fresh Ubuntu VMs with setup already completed:

- **Attacker VM**: Fresh Ubuntu + project files + dependencies installed (`setup_attacker.sh` + `deploy_to_attacker.sh` already run)
- **Victim VM**: Clean Ubuntu 20.04 LTS with kernel 5.4.0 (target system)

You get the **exact same result** as building from scratch, just faster setup.

> **Tip:** The images are nearly identical base Ubuntu installs. You can copy `attacker.qcow2` to `victim.qcow2` if needed.

### Launch the VMs
```bash
sudo scripts/run_vms.sh
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab tabName="Build Disks Yourself" %}}
If you prefer to build the disks yourself because you don't trust me (which is fair tbh), follow these steps:

### Download Ubuntu ISO
- Proton Drive: https://drive.proton.me/urls/N5ZQN96C30#77rPStc8Fx2i   (2.5 GB)
- Ubuntu archive: https://releases.ubuntu.com/20.04/ubuntu-20.04-desktop-amd64.iso  (2.5 GB)

### Create Blank QCOW2 Disks
```bash
qemu-img create -f qcow2 vm/attacker.qcow2 10G
qemu-img create -f qcow2 vm/victim.qcow2   10G
```

### Install Ubuntu Desktop into Each Disk
#### Attacker VM
```bash
qemu-system-x86_64 \
  -enable-kvm -machine accel=kvm -cpu host \
  -m 4096 -smp 4 \
  -name attacker-install \
  -drive file=vm/attacker.qcow2,format=qcow2,if=virtio,cache=writeback \
  -cdrom vm/ubuntu-20.04-desktop-amd64.iso -boot once=d \
  -netdev user,id=net0 -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=net0 \
  -vga virtio -display gtk
```
#### Victim VM
```bash
qemu-system-x86_64 \
  -enable-kvm -machine accel=kvm -cpu host \
  -m 4096 -smp 4 \
  -name victim-install \
  -drive file=vm/victim.qcow2,format=qcow2,if=virtio,cache=writeback \
  -cdrom vm/ubuntu-20.04-desktop-amd64.iso -boot once=d \
  -netdev user,id=net0 -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=net0 \
  -vga virtio -display gtk
```

> **Tip:** During installation, set up a user named `attacker` (for the attacker VM) and `victim` (for the victim VM) with password `jules` for consistency with the rest of the docs.

### After Installation
- Shut down the VM when done.
- The disks are now ready for use.

### Launch the VMs
```bash
sudo scripts/run_vms.sh
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## 2. Verifying Your VMs
- Run `./scripts/check_vms.sh` to verify the presence of disks and ISO files.
- If you see errors, check file paths and permissions.

## 3. Next Steps
- Continue to [Attacking VM Setup](./attacking-vm-setup.md) and [Victim VM Setup](./victim-vm-setup.md) for per-VM configuration and usage.
