content/docs/04-epirootkit/features/hiding.md, before:

---
title: "Stealth Hooks & daniel.* Commands"
description: "Hiding files, modules, PIDs, plus our rmdir() command channel"
icon: "visibility_off"
date: "2025-05-11T18:25:00+01:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-11T18:25:00+01:00"
draft: false
toc: true
weight: 56
---

# 1. File & Directory Hiding

**What we did**  
We hook `getdents()`/`getdents64()`.

**How it works**  
1. Call the original syscall to fill a `dirent` buffer.
2. Traverse entries; if `d_name` starts with any prefix in  
   ```c
   hide_prefixes[] = { "jules_est_bo_", "memfd:" };
   ```
   we drop that entry by `memmove()`.
3. Return the new byte count.

---

# 2. Module Hiding

**What we did**  
We hide our LKM from `/proc/modules` and `lsmod`.

**How it works**  
We hook the procfs `iterate` method for `/proc/modules` and `/sys/modules`, filtering out `"epirootkit"` entries.

---

# 3. PID Hiding

**What we did**  
Allow dynamic hiding of arbitrary PIDs.

**How it works**  
- Maintain a `hidden_pids` list in the kernel.
- In our `getdents()` hook on `/proc`, skip entries matching that list.
- Add to the list via `rmdir("daniel.k.<pid>")`.

---

# 4. C2 & Commands via `rmdir()`

**What we did**  
Use `rmdir()` as our stealth control channel.

{{< table >}}
| Command | Action |
|---------|--------|
| `daniel.0` | Privilege escalation |
| `daniel.c` | Dump in-kernel config |
| `daniel.v` | Report version |
| `daniel.k.<pid>` | Hide PID `<pid>` |
{{< /table >}}


**How it works**  
- Hook `rmdir(const char __user *path,…)`.
- Copy `path` into kernel space.
- If it matches `^daniel\.` we run the command and return `-ENOENT`.

Commit message:

Refactor setup documentation: update environment and VM installation guides for clarity, add essential package installation steps, and enhance troubleshooting sections. Improve C2 server configuration details and installation instructions for better user experience.

content/docs/04-epirootkit/features/hiding.md, after:

---
title: "Stealth Hooks & daniel.* Commands"
description: "Hiding files, modules, PIDs, plus our rmdir() command channel"
icon: "visibility_off"
date: "2025-05-11T18:25:00+01:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-11T18:25:00+01:00"
draft: false
toc: true
weight: 56
---

## TODO: Implement Stealth & Hiding Features

- [ ] Hook `getdents()`/`getdents64()` to hide files and directories
- [ ] Hide kernel module from `/proc/modules` and `lsmod`
- [ ] Implement PID hiding via dynamic list
- [ ] Implement stealth command channel via `rmdir()`
- [ ] Add privilege escalation and config dump commands
- [ ] Test all hiding features and document limitations

_This section will be updated with documentation once features are implemented and tested._

# 1. File & Directory Hiding

**What we did**  
We hook `getdents()`/`getdents64()`.

**How it works**  
1. Call the original syscall to fill a `dirent` buffer.
2. Traverse entries; if `d_name` starts with any prefix in  
   ```c
   hide_prefixes[] = { "jules_est_bo_", "memfd:" };
   ```
   we drop that entry by `memmove()`.
3. Return the new byte count.

---

# 2. Module Hiding

**What we did**  
We hide our LKM from `/proc/modules` and `lsmod`.

**How it works**  
We hook the procfs `iterate` method for `/proc/modules` and `/sys/modules`, filtering out `"epirootkit"` entries.

---

# 3. PID Hiding

**What we did**  
Allow dynamic hiding of arbitrary PIDs.

**How it works**  
- Maintain a `hidden_pids` list in the kernel.
- In our `getdents()` hook on `/proc`, skip entries matching that list.
- Add to the list via `rmdir("daniel.k.<pid>")`.

---

# 4. C2 & Commands via `rmdir()`

**What we did**  
Use `rmdir()` as our stealth control channel.

{{< table >}}
| Command | Action |
|---------|--------|
| `daniel.0` | Privilege escalation |
| `daniel.c` | Dump in-kernel config |
| `daniel.v` | Report version |
| `daniel.k.<pid>` | Hide PID `<pid>` |
{{< /table >}}


**How it works**  
- Hook `rmdir(const char __user *path,…)`.
- Copy `path` into kernel space.
- If it matches `^daniel\.` we run the command and return `-ENOENT`.
