content/docs/03-attacking-program/installation.md, before:

---
title: "Installation"
description: "Step-by-step installation and setup guide"
icon: "download"
date: "2025-05-25T00:00:00+01:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-25T16:00:00+01:00"
draft: false
toc: true
weight: 302
---

# Installation Guide

Complete setup instructions for the EpiRootkit C2 server.

## Prerequisites

<<<<<<< HEAD
*   **Node.js & pnpm**: Ensure Node.js (e.g., LTS v18.x+) and pnpm are installed.
    ```bash
    sudo apt update && sudo apt install nodejs npm
    npm install -g pnpm
    ```
=======
>>>>>>> d8205ef9e1984d8455d84e1cada77692ef2857c0

### Verify Prerequisites
```bash
# Check Node.js version
node --version

# Check pnpm installation
pnpm --version

<<<<<<< HEAD
2.  Install Dependencies:
    ```bash
    pnpm install
    ```
=======
# Install pnpm if not available
npm install -g pnpm
```
>>>>>>> d8205ef9e1984d8455d84e1cada77692ef2857c0

## Installation Steps

<<<<<<< HEAD
Required directories (`uploads/`, `downloads/`, `logs/`) are created automatically.

4.  **Start the C2 server and Web UI:**
    ```bash
    pnpm start
    ```
    This will launch both the C2 server and the Web UI. By default, the Web UI is available at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
=======
### 1. Navigate to Project Directory
```bash
cd attacking_program
```

### 2. Install Dependencies
```bash
# Using pnpm (recommended)
pnpm install

# Or using npm
npm install
```


## Configuration

### 1. Review Configuration File
```bash
cat config.env
```

**Default Configuration:**
```bash
# EpiRootkit C2 Server Configuration
C2_PORT=4444
WEB_PORT=3000

# Authentication Configuration
PASSWORD_HASH=b109f3bbbc244eb82441917ed06d618b9008dd09b3befd1b5e07394c706a8bb980b1d7785e5976ec049b46df5f1326af5a2ea6d103fd07c95385ffab0cacbc86

# Encryption Configuration
ENCRYPTION_KEY=0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef
ENABLE_ENCRYPTION=true
```


## First Run

### 1. Start the C2 Server
```bash
pnpm start
```

**Expected Output:**
```
┌─ C2 Server Interface • Initializing...
└─ Initializing...

┌─ Setup
  • [2025-05-25 16:00:00] Config: C2_PORT=4444, WEB_PORT=3000
└─

┌─ Server Status
  • [2025-05-25 16:00:00] Server started on port 4444
└─

  • Web interface started on port 3000

c2-server$ 
```


### 3. Test CLI Interface
```bash
# In the C2 server prompt
c2-server$ help

# List clients (should be empty initially)
c2-server$ ls
# No clients connected
```


## Next Steps

1. **Connect a Rootkit**: Load the EpiRootkit module on a victim machine
2. **Authenticate**: Use `auth Client-1 password` to establish secure connection
3. **Execute Commands**: Start with `exec Client-1 whoami` to test functionality
4. **Explore Features**: Try file operations, persistence management, and configuration
>>>>>>> d8205ef9e1984d8455d84e1cada77692ef2857c0

Commit message:

Refactor installation and usage documentation for EpiRootkit C2 server. Removed outdated prerequisites and installation steps, clarified server startup instructions, and enhanced web UI access details. Updated authentication panel description to reflect two-layer security features. Deleted obsolete web UI installation file.

content/docs/03-attacking-program/installation.md, after:

---
title: "Installation"
description: "Step-by-step installation and setup guide"
icon: "download"
date: "2025-05-25T00:00:00+01:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-25T16:00:00+01:00"
draft: false
toc: true
weight: 302
---

# Installation Guide

Complete setup instructions for the EpiRootkit C2 server.

## Prerequisites

### Verify Prerequisites
```bash
# Check Node.js version
node --version

# Check pnpm installation
pnpm --version

# Install pnpm if not available
npm install -g pnpm
```

## Installation Steps

### 1. Navigate to Project Directory
```bash
cd attacking_program
```

### 2. Install Dependencies
```bash
# Using pnpm (recommended)
pnpm install

# Or using npm
npm install
```

## Configuration

### 1. Review Configuration File
```bash
cat config.env
```

**Default Configuration:**
```bash
# EpiRootkit C2 Server Configuration
C2_PORT=4444
WEB_PORT=3000

# Authentication Configuration
PASSWORD_HASH=b109f3bbbc244eb82441917ed06d618b9008dd09b3befd1b5e07394c706a8bb980b1d7785e5976ec049b46df5f1326af5a2ea6d103fd07c95385ffab0cacbc86

# Encryption Configuration
ENCRYPTION_KEY=0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef
ENABLE_ENCRYPTION=true
```

## First Run

### 1. Start the C2 Server
```bash
pnpm start
```

**Expected Output:**
```
┌─ C2 Server Interface • Initializing...
└─ Initializing...

┌─ Setup
  • [2025-05-25 16:00:00] Config: C2_PORT=4444, WEB_PORT=3000
└─

┌─ Server Status
  • [2025-05-25 16:00:00] Server started on port 4444
└─

  • Web interface started on port 3000

c2-server$ 
```

### 2. Access Web Interface
Open your browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:3000
```

### 3. Test CLI Interface
```bash
# In the C2 server prompt
c2-server$ help

# List clients (should be empty initially)
c2-server$ ls
# No clients connected
```

## Next Steps

1. **Connect a Rootkit**: Load the EpiRootkit module on a victim machine
2. **Authenticate**: Use `auth Client-1 password` to establish secure connection
3. **Execute Commands**: Start with `exec Client-1 whoami` to test functionality
4. **Explore Features**: Try file operations, persistence management, and configuration
